Dear Jon Chun,

Many thanks for contributing to the Research Topic "Artificial Intelligence: The New Frontier in Digital Humanities" with your manuscript summary "Multimodal SentimentArcs: A Digital Humanities Tool to Track the Evolution of Sentiment Over Time":
To move forward, please submit your manuscript no later than 04 June 2024 via the following link Artificial Intelligence: The New Frontier in Digital Humanities.
When submitted, your manuscript will undergo Frontiers collaborative peer-review process, through which authors can directly interact with editors and reviewers in a fully-online, dedicated review forum. If accepted, your article will be published immediately and become freely accessible to all readers. Your paper will be indexed in relevant repositories, and as an author in Frontiers, you retain the copyright to your own papers and figures. You will also have access to advanced article-level metrics to track your impact.
All articles published incur a publishing fee, allowing us to make articles free to read and download.Find more information on article fees.
Should you have any questions, please do not hesitate to contact us.
We look forward to receiving your manuscript!
For your reference, the manuscript summary content is as follows:
"Large Language Models (LLMs) have continued to progress in both downstream task performance and in incorporating multiple modalities beyond text. Thus text-only LLMs have evolved into Large Multimodal Models (LMMs). This paper utilizes both of these advances to present a novel multimodal sentiment analysis tool called MutliSentimentArcs.

SentimentArcs (Elkins and Elkins 2019) is a digital humanities tool for analyzing the evolution of sentiment over time. This has been shown to reveal the emotional shape of stories in novels as well as surface common narrative crux points studied by literary scholars (Elkins 2022). The original SentimentArcs was based upon an ensemble of over 30 models from across different sentiment analysis paradigms including lexicons, statistical ML and DNN (Chun 2020). Ensemble averages and coherence are used to identify the best approximation of the overall emotional arc as well as confidence intervals. This has been vetted across a diverse corpus of dozens of novels representing various cultures, genres, periods, and authorial perspectives.

Over the past several years, SentimentArcs has become a general digital humanities tool to analyze the evolution of emotion beyond just narratives in novels. For example, SentimentArcs has been used to study scriptwriting patterns in the reality TV show Shark Tank (Gow 2021), end of life medical narratives (Song 2022), the collapse of the Sri Lankan government (De Silva 2022), and US voter polarization in accepting US election results (Gimbel 2022).

This paper preserves the overall pipeline architecture, methodology and analysis of SentimentArcs, but completely replaces the underlying models, backend API code, and visualization to become multimodal instead of just text based. In addition, we provide a flexible plug-n-play architecture that enables the new MultiSentimentArcs to be easily updated with the newest, most performant SOTA LLMs and/or LMMs as well as rapidly advancing open source alternatives like Mistral, LAVA, and the upcoming Llama 3. We release MultiSentimentArcs as open source DH tool for scholars across a wide variety of disciplines much like SentimentArcs that includes literature, tv/film, music, art, and the social sciences."

Kind Regards,
Rocco Pietrini
Topic Editor,
Human-Media Interaction Section, Frontiers in Computer Science
On behalf of the Topic Editors.







